---
title: China vs. Taiwan Conflict
layout: page
parent: Resources
nav_order: 3
---
In this future based scenerio we are going to be taking a look if a China vs. Taiwan Conflict will meet the criteria to fall under A UN Peacekeeping mission. The People’s Republic of China, established in 1949, has never governed Taiwan but nonetheless views the island as a breakaway territory that must be “unified” with the mainland—by force if necessary. After World War Two the communists took over mainland china and pushed all of the nationalists to taiwan where they proceased to set up a goverment in exile and maintained their claim to the mainland. This has created a lot of tensions over the years to who should be in control of the island. Over the past two decades, tensions between China and Taiwan have escalated due to political shifts and military actions. In 2005, China passed the Anti-Secession Law, threatening force if Taiwan declared independence. This tension grew in 2016 when President Tsai Ing-wen rejected the "1992 Consensus," prompting increased military drills from Beijing. By 2024, China conducted its largest exercises yet, encircling Taiwan with naval and artillery units. Meanwhile, Taiwan has strengthened its defenses and deepened ties with allies like the U.S. The situation remains Hostile, with China insisting on reunification while Taiwan asserts its right to self-governance. This conflict may escalate to a world wide scale if somthing decided to pop off. Nations around the globe are trying to stabilize the situation, As for the U.S. we follow strategic ambiguity and do not state wheather we would defend Taiwan militarily if China attacked However we do support Taiwan. When it comes to if the senerio would meet the standards for a UN peacekeeping mission it gets tricky. A peacekeeping mission reuires the consent of the host country and other parties involved in the conflict. China is a permanet member of the UN security council and has the power to veto any resolution authorizing a peacekeeping mission. It is very unlikley that China would approve a mission that it sees as interfering in its affairs or getting in the way of its claims to Taiwan. 
